# rChIPSeqTools
R scripts in this package were developed to analyse ChIP-Seq data generated by Stadhouders et al. 2015, Nature communication. There are 2 main functions for these scripts (1) to do peak detection and (2) to generate motif logos from the result of the denovo motif discovery software, MEME (http://meme-suite.org/tools/meme). 

To do the peak detection, the script “sRunPeakDetection.R” has to be executed in the terminal of R statistical software. The script requires BAM files, which can be found in the "example.data" folder as the input. The script automatically reads in BAM files, detects and splits large regions, and assigns statistical values for each detected binding sites. The peak detection will be performed chromosome-by-chromosome basis.

Here is the explanation of column names found in the peak detection result ("IRF2BP2.chrX.peaks.txt"):
1. "chromosome" is the reference chromosome
2. "start" is the start genomic position of the binding site
3. "end" is the end genomic position of the binding site
4. "peak_center" is the genomic position of the maximum coverage of that particular binding site
5. "chip.Ntags" is the number of mapped reads in ChIP per each binding site
6. "contr.Ntags" is the number of mapped reads in Control per each binding site
7. "chip.max" is the number of maximum covereage in ChIP per each binding site
8. "control.max" is the number of maximum covereage in Control per each binding site
9. "padj.Ntags" is the adjusted p-value calculated from chip.Ntags Vs contr.Ntags
10. "padj.maxCov" is the adjusted p-value calculated from chip.max Vs control.max
11. "fold.Ntags" is the foldchange calculated from chip.Ntags Vs contr.Ntags
12. "fold.max" is the foldchange calculated from chip.max Vs control.max

To generate motif logos, the script "sRunMotifGeneration.R" has to be executed in the terminal of R statistical software.
This script requires the MEME format as the input (please see the example of format in the "example.data/Demo.meme.result.txt"). The script will automatically generate motif logos in both forward and reverse complementay strands and save the file in PDF format.

Any problems, please contact supat.thongjuea@gmail.com
